However,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  multicultural  character  of  these societies preceded independence and their formation as nation-states.One  of  these,  Singapore  was  and  is  quintessentially  a  multicultural  soci-ety.
Founded  as  a  free  port  in  1819  by  Rafﬂes  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  a staging  post  for  the  burgeoning  British  trade  between  India  and  Canton  and  to break  the  Dutch  monopoly  of  and  inﬂuence  over  the  Indonesian  archipelago,  it almost immediately attracted sojourners and settlers from South Asia, the Malay and  Indonesian  archipelago,  and  South  China,  and  a  lesser  number  of  Arabs, Europeans and Eurasians in the mercantile and administrative community.
Soon, British  colonial  administrators  found  themselves  planning  and  administering  the port city on the basis of ethnic enclaves assigned to the Chinese, Indians, Malays and  Europeans.
Europeans resided adjacent to the government centre, the Arabs and Bugis sharing trading and religious interests were placed close to Malay royalty further away, and the majority Chinese and Indians were concentrated in the centre of mercantile activity south of the Singapore River.
The  ethnic  composition  of the population has remarkably been largely unchanged for the past century.The responsibilities of the colonial government did not extend beyond maintaining law and order and maintaining basic infrastructure to ensure that Singapore operated as a free port and commercial centre.
Between the 1850s and 1950s, the major ethnic groups were left to their own devices to mobilize resources and develop their own community  organization  to  look  after  the  welfare  and  religious  needs  of  its  mem-bers—including building temples and mosques, hospitals and setting up vernacular schools.
The  Chinese,  Malays,  Indians and the open-ended Others were subsequently recognized by the PAP government as the ‘founding’ races of post-colonial multicultural Singapore.Political Origins of MulticulturalismThe historical and political origins of multiculturalism in Singapore may be traced to  the  British  proposal  for  a  Malayan  Union  in  1945–46,  in  preparation  for  the colonial disengagement from the peninsula in a manner that would not jeopardize 2  Multiculturalism in Singapore: Concept and Practice29ReferencesBenjamin,  G.
Kuala Lumpur: Oxford University Press.Brown, D.
The state and ethnic politics in Southeast Asia.
How  nation-states  respond  to  immigration  and  ethnic  diversity.
Multiculturalism  in  Singapore:  an  instrument  of  social  control.
From colonial pluralism to postcolonial multiculturalism: Race, state formation and the question of cultural diversity in Malaysia and Singapore.
State carnivals and the subvention of multiculturalism in Singapore.
Goh et al (Eds.), Race and multiculturalism in Malaysia and Singapore.
Racial groupings in Singapore.
Singapore Journal of Tropical Geography, London: Routledge.1, 25–36.Lai, A.
Kuala Lumpur: Oxford University Press.Modood, T.
T. (2014) Multiculturalism on its head: Unexpected boundaries and new migration in Singapore.
The politics of ethnicity in settler societies.
The Singapore dilemma: The political and educational marginality of the Malay Community.
New York: Oxford University Press.Rahman, M.
F. Lian (Ed.), Race ethnicity, and the state in Malaysia and Singapore (pp.
F. Lian (Ed.), Race ethnicity, and the state in Malaysia and Singapore (pp.
Singapore: Oxford University Press.Vertovec, S.
Kuala Lumpur: Oxford University Press.